A manager is a user offering cryptocurrency incentive to complete a task. The manager has freedom to choose the task requirements to align with their wants, the validators that they find objective, and the task parameters that define the behavior of the task.

A manager is incentivized to choose a validator that is objective in order to optimize transaction value. A validator with no history, a hidden history, or a history of biased or incorrect evaluations would not be appealing to workers to participate. To expand the market of workers who would want to work on the task, it is better when the chosen validator is objective.

The manager is incentivized to have the reward for the completion of the task to closely match the market value of the labor for the task. If the task is difficult while the reward is small and the deadline short, then no rational worker would spend their time on completing the task when they have a greater opportunity to work on something else. If the reward is too big for the labor of the task, then the manager is using their wealth ineffectively.

A rational manager would want to create a task if the value of its digital product is greater than their upfront cost to reward it. This incentive exists regardless of whether other users are also able to access the same digital product. If I need a hammer and my neighbor gets a hammer at no extra cost, then it makes no difference to my interests. Furthermore, if both my neighbor and I each need a truck and we cannot pay individually, but can pool in the money together for it, then we are both better off contributing than not contributing.

A manager should be cautious when selecting a validator, or multiple validators, for a task. Bad acting validators may have a short or non-existing history, they may have a history of biased or incorrect evaluations, or may hide the data in the history of their transactions. Data itself can be hidden since it is not written on the blockchain. However, all transactions on a blockchain are public and immutable. All transactions contain hashes of the hosted data, so the fact that a transaction has taken place cannot be hidden. A manager should evaluate the entire history of a validator. Even a validator with a good history may have the potential to do an exit scam, so this risk should be taken into account when creating a task. A validator may also end up not evaluating a worker submission before an evaluation deadline, so the task would be marked as completed defaulted and the reward would go to the worker regardless of whether the worker met the task requirements. This incentivizes managers to select validators who are available, incentivizes giving sufficient commission fees to validators, and incentivizes managers to choose validators who work efficiently.

If a validator finds that any of the content of a worker submission is unethical, even if by requirement of the manager task, then the validator has the option to ignore all evaluation effort and mark all of the submission requirements as unmet. A validator is incentivized to discard an unethical submission because it allows them to complete the evaluation without putting in extra time and effort to actually evaluating the requirements (the ethics requirement is the first requirement and is automatically included as a requirement for all tasks). This also means that workers should not risk submitting unethical content or submitting to an unethical task because it would mean they put in time and effort into a task that they will not be rewarded for. Consequently, managers are not incentivized to create unethical tasks or tasks that ask for unethical content.

Manager users are an essential part of Freelance Society because they provide the cryptocurrency financial incentive for laborers. In return, managers are able to direct the output of the labor to their wants or needs.