A worker is a user offering labor to complete a task created by a manager. The worker has the freedom in the choice of work among all task opportunities. Also, if the time, effort, and risk in working on a task is too great, then the worker may be incentivized to not take on the task at all.

A worker is incentivized to choose a task while taking into account the effort of the task, the skillset for the task, the objectiveness of the validator(s), and the risk of failure. If a user puts in a lot more effort into a task than they expected, then the worker is using their time inefficiently, so they are incentivized to be accurate with their expectations in choosing a task. A task is typically indifferent to what worker completes the task, so there are typically other workers trying to complete the same task at the same time. This incentivizes workers to complete the task efficiently so that they do not waste their time putting effort into a task they will not be rewarded for. This also incentivizes workers to choose tasks that they can complete more efficiently compared to other users, so workers align their efforts towards their personal skillset where they have a competative advantage, leading to a more efficient labor market. Workers should also assess the objectiveness of the task validator. Bad acting validators could have a short or non-existing history, they may have a history of biased or incorrect evaluations, or may hide the data in the history of their transactions. Data itself can be hidden since it is not hosted on the blockchain. However, all transactions on a blockchain are public and immutable, and contain hashes of the transaction data, so no validator transaction can be hidden. Moreover, even a validator with a good history may have the potential to do an exit scam, so this risk should be taken into account when working on a task. A worker also has the potential to have their work submission rejected. In this case, the validator found that the provided work did not meet one or more requirements, and the exact requirements not met can be publicly seen on the blockchain. The worker can attempt to resubmit their work with the fixes to the task once again to be reevaluated. But once the work is submitted, the work becomes publicly available, so workers are incentivized to only submit work that meets all task requirements on their first attempt. All of these risks must be taken into account by the worker to decide if the reward of a task is worth their time and effort.

If a validator finds that any of the content of a worker submission is unethical, even if by requirement of the manager task, then the validator has the option to ignore all evaluation effort and mark all of the submission requirements as unmet. A validator is incentivized to discard an unethical submission because it allows them to complete the evaluation without putting in extra time and effort to actually evaluating the requirements (the ethics requirement is the first requirement and is automatically included as a requirement for all tasks). This means that workers should not risk submitting unethical content or submitting to an unethical task because it would mean they put in time and effort into a task that they will not be rewarded for.

Worker users are an essential part of Freelance Society because they provide efficient labor to create digital tools and products that are in demand by capital managers. In return, workers receive cryptocurrency as a reward for their efforts.